welcome to another edition of cram at
where we are gonna be jamming through
everything important that happened in
the first four films in the Jurassic
Park series so you're all set for film
number five Jurassic world
fallen Kingdom creates dinosaurs God
destroys those God creates a man man
destroys good man creates to us alright
that's it see you next time folks we're
just kidding in the first film Jurassic
Park we meet ambitious entrepreneur and
white linen suit enthusiast John Hammond
who's cloned dinosaurs from fossilized
amber and housed them in a combination
Zoo theme park on Isla Nublar off the
coast of Costa Rica which he plans to
open to the public very soon but after
one tiny little accident that could
really happen to anybody
his investors start to get cold feet
about Park safety fortunately his lawyer
Gennaro
has a plan if two experts sail in the
island so Hammond recruits
paleontologist Alan Grant and
paleobotanist Ellie Sattler along with
mathematician Ian Malcolm can Titian ki
Titian frankly sure okay whatever
Hammond also invites his grandkids along
for the weekend because what's a
business trip to an experimental
cutting-edge zoo filled with vicious
predators during a tropical storm
without a couple of plucky
pre-adolescence needless to say the
experts are blown away by the Dino
clones mr. dinosaur get a crash course
in how they were made from mr. DNA
Jurassic Park scientists extract the
preserved blood from the mosquito and
bingo Dino DNA and learn how the
dinosaur populations are controlled from
geneticist dr. Henry Wu there's no
unauthorized breeding in Jurassic Park
because all the animals in Jurassic Park
came out dr. Malcolm calls BS on the
whole no breeding thing via future
franchise poster tagline life
fines away we also meet gamekeeper
Muldoon who's largely in charge of
wrangling the most deadly predators in
Jurassic Park the vicious velociraptors
boy it sure would be a shame if those
got out anyway hold onto your butts
because it's time for a tram tour around
the park but while hammond spared no
expense building the park he clearly
didn't spare enough salary to pay his
head engineer Dennis Nedry enough
because he made a shady deal with a
rival company to steal Jurassic Park
dinosaur in breo's no Newman I mean
Nedry then shuts down the parks
electrical grid and security systems to
cover his theft he attempts to drive to
the docks in the middle of a tropical
storm yeah it doesn't go well the
samples Nedry stole fall to the ground
and get covered in mud and a shot that's
clearly laying the seeds for a sequel
but it isn't
unfortunately neji system shutdown means
that all of Hammonds guests are now
trapped in a powered down dinosaur
amusement park with non-functioning
Electrical fences so yeah they're in
trouble
Malcolm gets injured and Genaro gets
eaten but grant and the kids get away
embarking on numerous wild adventures on
their journey back to the visitors
center
along the way grant also discovers
dinosaur eggs and baby Dino tracks wife
found away back at the visitors center
Hammond s samuel l.jackson to shut down
the parks entire system and reboot it in
order to fix neji's hack and get
everything back online samuel l.jackson
then asked us to hold on to you books it
works but the raptors are now loose le
almost gets eaten by one when she goes
to the maintenance shed to turn the
power back on
Muldoon does get eaten by one but at
least he respects her for it and Lex and
Tim are terrorized by a pair of them in
the visitors center kitchen eventually
everyone reunites just in time to be
totally surrounded by Raptors things
look grim until the t-rex shows back up
and eats the Raptors how did she get in
there it doesn't matter they're all
friends now happy-ending decided to
indoors to park and no one was dumb
enough to ever bother the dinosaurs
again the lost world jurassic park opens
four years after the events of the first
movie on Ehlo sorna our rich families
decided to have a fancy champagne picnic
on the island which is a bad idea
because it's full of you know wild
dinosaurs as it turns out in Gen John
Hammonds company from the first movie
had a whole other Island dubbed site B
Hammond loses control of this company
because of the dinosaur attack and now
he's worried that it's only a matter of
time before this lost world is found and
pillaged so he wants to send in an
expedition to document him before that
happens enter Ian Malcolm who was never
really in favor of this whole dinosaur
business in the first place so there's
no way he's gonna go No unless you do
something really underhanded like
recruit his paleontologist girlfriend
and make sure she's already on the
island is in contact Sarah it's too late
already wow that is pretty low okay so
Malcolm agrees to go on the expedition
to rescue Sarah oh and remember when he
said that he had three kids back in
Jurassic Park got any kids oh hell yeah
three well we get to meet one of them
Kelly Kelly used to do gymnastics at
school but got kicked off the team
gymnastics
scrubbed out that I got cut through to
this will definitely not ever come up
again later mauka meets the rest of his
team which consists of conservationist
and photographer nick van vince vaughn
and tech guys slash beardless Toby
Ziegler Eddie car so the crew takes off
for ela sorna by boat find Sara and are
shocked to discover that Kelly has
tagged along in an observation trailer
and is now stuck with them on the island
then they discover that Ludlow John
Hammonds evil nephew and new head of
engine has sent a private army to the
island to begin rounding up stray
dinosaurs you see Ludlow's plan is to
open a Jurassic Park in San Diego bring
the zoo to them great idea their team is
led by a big-game hunter Rowland Timbo
who just wants one thing right - huh -
dinosaur Nick Vince Vaughn sabotages the
operation by releasing the trapped
dinosaurs and he and Sarah save an
injured baby t-rex and take it to their
trailer to bandage it up of course it
squeals the pain attract the mom and dad
t-rex right to the trailer I mean how do
you not see that coming Kelly saw that
coming
Jeff Goldblum gets the spout off his
main trailer line and the t-rex is
attack trailers are knocked over
beardless Toby Ziegler's are eating but
the main cast thankfully survives and
are rescued by Timbo and his team cut
off from communication they formulate a
plan to get rescued which involves the
entire party tromping across dinosaur
island because of course it does there's
a communication center building Sarah
dinosaur expert that she is is still
wearing a jacket covered with hot wet
baby t-rex blood I'm sure that won't be
an issue
oh wait of course it is a lot of running
and yelling ensues just as Goldblum
predicted earlier in the film later
there's running and screaming the group
radios for help
yeah the operation has suffered severe
casualties but there are still a bunch
of raptors and they're feeling very
Raptor II there's a lot of running
around and Raptors jumping into and onto
and out of things and remember that pup
point about Kelly being cut from the
gymnastics team finally the group makes
it out alive and they can put this whole
nightmare behind wait there's more
okay in the worst case of doubling down
on a mistake until the next sequel
engine decides to take the adult t-rex
and the baby back to San Diego to open
their park the ship with the t-rex
arrives in San Diego but crashes
completely out of control into the dock
seems like Rexy got loose on board
killed everyone then got back into the
loading dock to make a dramatic entrance
and now it wants to wreak that same kind
of havoc on the entire San Diego
metropolitan area
it's not the female t-rex we met in the
first movie who reappears later in
Jurassic world this t-rex is a real dick
Malcolm and Sarah break into the somehow
instantly almost completed Jurassic Park
San Diego arena and find the baby t-rex
using him to Lourdes dad back to the
ship
it works plus they eat the bad guy
win-win in the end John Hammond goes on
TV and urges everyone to just leave the
dinosaurs alone and it seems like the
world agrees these creatures and no one
was dumb enough to ever bother the
dinosaurs in Jurassic Park 3 is so
excited to revisit the whole dinosaur
footprint rippling water thing they get
it in during the universal logo yes
dinosaurs we're very excited for this
adventure we're going back to site B ela
Sorna a kid named Erik Kirby goes
missing on the island after an
unfortunate paragliding accident kids
extreme sports not even once his
recently separated parents Paul and
Amanda Kirby decide to rescue Erik
themselves since the authorities refuse
to go to the island because of you know
the dinosaurs we did everything we could
no one would help us so they hire
Goodall Alan Grant and his research
assistant Billy note that Billy has a
fancy 3d printer that he's used to
recreate a raptors Voicebox you never
know might be useful as far as grant is
concerned he's just leading a flying
tour over the island to see the
dinosaurs and it's not until they are
over the island that he learns the awful
truth you cannot land on the sea they
land which marks the second time dr.
Alan Grant has been lured to a dinosaur
island with money but only the first
time he said a dream hallucination of a
talking Velociraptor Valley
unfortunately for dr. grant the idiots
he's working for who can't pay him by
the way immediately start searching for
their son very loudly
we should tell your wife to stop making
that noise that is a very very bad idea
which attacks the attention of a
Spinosaurus
simply trying to take off but then crash
the plane the spinosaurus doesn't give
up easily it eats this guy Nash who has
the satellite phone but then gets
distracted by killing a t-rex allowing
everyone to escape I don't know what
t-rex that was but I hope it's the
dickish one that ate the dog the group
stumble into a Raptors nest and escaped
into an old destroyed engine lab they
better check that landline phone I'm
sure that still works it was worth a try
the Raptors continued pursuing them and
grant realizes that they're far more
adept at communication than even he had
imagined Raptors in this movie are
downright chatty grant gets separated
from the group and things look bleak but
then he's saved by young Erik armed with
gas grenades Eric's been surviving on
his own in an empty water truck for
eight weeks and if you think that sounds
unrealistic don't worry the movie
totally explains it kids got resources
remember what it was like to try to
ground him see this is t-rex pee I
actually kind of do want to know
everyone gets reunited and grant
discovers that Billy stole some Raptor
eggs from that nest they were in earlier
which is why those Raptors are so agro
great job Billy that was a real Sarah
kind of move there they decide to head
for a boat that grant spots in the river
but have to cross through an aviary full
of vicious Pteranodon Billy saves Erik
but gets attacked and it certainly seems
like he's done for the Kirby's and dr.
grant all managed to escape but forget
to close the gate all the way these
movies would be so short if just one
person wasn't a complete idiot once on
board the boat they find Nash's old
satellite phone and some spinosaurus
droppings
but before they can use it spiny is back
for the final showdown grant manages to
get a very quick call off to Ellie
before he torches the water scaring away
the big bad Spinosaurus we get our
traditional third act hugs but then it's
a final final showdown with the Raptors
the group returns the eggs and grant
talks to them using Billy's 3d printed
resonating chamber hey what do you know
it works
some Raptors ain't so unreasonable after
all just then the military rides and
saves the day and even Billy's alive
what a happy ending oh wait I forgot
these dopes left the gate open and a
bunch of extremely dangerous Pteranodons
escaped this is probably bad right I
mean those things are gonna wreak havoc
on any number of ecosystems dr. grant as
a scientist surely you're concerned
about just looking for a new nesting
grounds oh okay then well with the
franchise exhausting both all of its
characters and all of Michael Crichton's
action sequences from the original
Jurassic Park novel it's time to put the
Jurassic franchise to rest and we can
say once and for all that no one was
dumb enough to ever bother the duck back
on Elin dubar billionaire magnate most
Ronnie has taken over the park from the
late John Hammond our IP and reopened it
as Jurassic world
he's also hired workaholic Clair to run
things for him which includes creating
new hybrid dinosaurs to keep tourists
interested Verizon Wireless presents the
indominus rex the latest in the
genetically designed super dinosaurs is
the indominus rex created by tertiary
original movie character dr. Henry Wu
remember him she will be 50 feet long
when fully grown bigger than the t-rex
as the movie opens Claire has invited
her nephews Zack and gray to Jurassic
world for the weekend while their
parents are getting divorced
but their double ignored because Claire
is too busy working to hang out with
them and dumps them on her assistant we
also meet the new face of the franchise
badass dinosaur handler Owen who has
trained velociraptors to stare at him
aza
Owens joined by Hoskins and in general
any type of dude who's really excited
about training dinosaurs so they can be
used in military operations these guys
are gonna run straight into the enemy's
teeth and eat them but buck oh no it's a
well reasoned and extremely sound plan
and you know what even before anything
technically goes wrong this part seems
really accident-prone probably nothing
to worry about
these people never look you said it very
clear ass Owen to check out the
indominus rex panic and make sure it's
up to snuff before it opens to the
public in a few weeks but what you know
that rascal seems to have disappeared so
Owen does the only logical thing he
grabs a super out-of-shape security
guard and wanders into the paddock to
scope things out himself yes he could
have called the control room who easily
could have cleared up the confusion and
told him that the dinosaur was still in
the paddock using the tracker that's
implanted in its skin but let's go with
the proactive approach naturally the
indominus rex immediately escapes claire
deploys a crack squad of dinosaur
Wranglers no one else is gonna get it
who immediately all get eaten
miss Rani confronts Wu about why he made
a craze killing machine is an attraction
for a family theme park and was all like
what are you people not getting regular
dinosaurs are boring things at Jurassic
world are heating up but Wu he's
ice-cold cooler I believe is the word
that you used in your memo I'm gonna say
this guy does not seem like a good dude
back in the park Zack and gray are busy
hate watching Jimmy Fallon and rolling
around in a giant hamster ball
willy-nilly through herds of giant
dinosaurs when the ride closes they
decide to stay out just a little bit
longer because in Jurassic world you can
literally just wander around
unsupervised which is very realistic and
safe
you're fine they told you to go back and
you're entering a restricted area with a
broken fence and a dinosaur park now you
deserve to get eaten
Claire remembers these kids are
technically heard direct blood relatives
and tries to warn them to get back to
safety
Zak
but then forgets that texting is an
option and grabs Owen to set out and
rescue them the kids almost get eaten by
the indominus but make a daring escape
and are now lost and alone as they track
them Claire no one discovered the
indominus rex is the most gangster
dinosaur of all time it's killing for
sport this dinosaur isn't just a hybrid
and scary and invisible
he is pure concentrated Dino evil back
at headquarters a Dino craze Hoskins
suggests that the best plan of action is
to have the Raptors hunt the indominus
rex but despite being in charge of a
park literally falling apart around him
maserati makes the right call no
velociraptors are going to be said to
those for now Zack and great ride to
remind us how much we like the first
movie and then take just a few minutes
to fix up a 26 year old Jeep and drive
off mice Ronnie takes to the skies to
try to capture the indominus rex and
crashes this helicopter into the aviary
which lets all the flying dinosaurs out
now they're free to commence their
favorite leisure activity picking people
up and dropping them
[Music]
[Applause]
and Claire's assistant pays the price
for attempting to do her job by getting
the most undeserving brutal death in the
whole movie at least Gennaro was a
scum-sucking lawyer
thank you but no one cares because Zack
and gray are finally reunited with
Claire and Owen Hoskins is loving the
dinosaur chaos because it means he gets
to take over you're all relieved of duty
and he finally lets the Raptors loose
Owen goes along to protect the raptors
and also so they can get this badass
shot for the trailer but it turns out
the indominus rex is also part Raptor so
she becomes the new Raptor alpha and
everybody immediately gets eaten anyway
wu escapes the island via helicopter and
he's carrying a suitcase presumably
filled with genetically altered super
lethal dinosaur embryos because he is
basically lab coat Thanos at this point
before Hoskins can round up the rest of
that Dino DNA in a fitting display of
irony he gets eaten by one of the very
Raptors that were so clearly never going
to get properly trained Claire owned and
the kids make a break for it become face
to face with the indominus rex and the
raptors but this time the raptors stay
loyal to owen and attack it's a valiant
fight but they need more peace we need
more teeth that's a weird way to put it
but sure so Claire lets out the park's
t-rex which immediately fights the
indominus because she's been the hero
all along or read the script after a lot
of neck biting it's finally the mosasaur
that ultimately takes down the indominus
rex
Blouin the t-rex didn't acknowledge each
other and wander off into the night
without trying to eat anyone else
because they're probably tired I guess
our main cast all survives and once
again we are left with an island ruled
by dinosaurs you know they should set up
a ferry between Iowa Sorna and Island
uber charge one admission so we could
visit both dinosaur islands on the same
trip at least they would do that if
anyone at this point in the franchise
could possibly still be stupendously
stupid enough to go into your dinosaurs
luckily no one could possibly be dumb
enough to ever bother the diner
Jurassic world falling Kingdom hits
theaters soon and we hope this has been
a helpful recap of the Jurassic
franchise up to this point what did we
leave out should we have brought up
shirtless Ian Malcolm does that
assistant death of Jurassic world bother
you as much as it bothers me let us know
in the comments below and as always
likes find a way thanks for watching
[Music]